‘The normal due date is April ICI April 15 falls ona Saturday, Sunday,
or legal lolicay; tie due date is extended until the est business day.

A tax return is considered filed on time” if the envelope is properly addressed, postmarked, and
deposited in the mail by the due date. if a tax return is postmarked on April 15 but does
notarrive at an IRS service center until April 30, the IRS must accept the tax return

the “mailbox rule.” E-filed tax returns are given an “electronic postmark”
in cases where a tax returns filed close
to the deadline, it is highly advisable for a taxpayer to pay for proof of mailing or certified mail.

Example: Seraphina is an enrolled agent who specializes in handling tax returns. One of her clients,
Watson, is a single father to his 14-year-old daughter, Emily, and provides all financial support for her.
On April 15, 2024, Seraphina attempts to electronically file Watson's 2023 tax return but it is rejected
due to someone else already claiming Emily as a dependent. Watson suspects that his estranged ex-
wife may have tried to claim their daughter, but he has no way of confirming or contacting her. Upon
realizing the issue cannot be resolved electronically, Seraphina advises filing a paper return instead.
She prints out the necessary forms for Watson and he signs them with an original ink signature before
they are sent via certified mail before the post office closes. The return is considered timely and
undergoes regular processing. Approximately eight weeks later, Watson receives his full refund.

If a taxpayer cannot file by the due date, the taxpayer may request an extension by filing Form

A868, Application for Automatic Extension of TimeNtoNile] which may be filed electronically. The

extension must be filed by the original due date. An extension grants an additional six months to file a

tax return,
Note: ‘extension gives a taxpayer extra time toile it does ot extend the time tg
ay TAXYES MUSESUMAEADAYIINES by the original deadline.

I

Federal Disaster Areas: Taxpayers in [ESlyECTeAMISAStERaTEASIEMANSASIE)Iae
ranted postponements to fileand pay their taxc§ and to make estimated payments. The
IRS [AISO EAE Ares Ananya OEE PAYRENUDEAIES that apply to taxpayers in these
disaster areas. This type of tax relief generally includes:

+ Individuals and businesses [EAIENARISASERTE

+ Those whose tax records are [oEATEUINEISASIEAER] and

«Relief workers whore working in the disaster area,

A taxpayer does not have to be physically located in a federally declared disaster area to qualify as
an “affected taxpayer.” INPAYETSTSRISONONSIETEANAMECtea) INEINEEORIS necessary to meet a
filing or payment deadline postponed during the relief period AEIOGIEANNAEOVERENISISIERATES.
Therefore, disaster relief also applies to tax preparers (and their clients) who are unable to file returns
or make payments on behalf of their clients because of a disaster.

30
