Example: Declan owns a 30% interest in a partnership that is located in a federally declared disaster
area. However, Declan himself does not live in the disaster zone. Since he must rely on the information
(Schedule K-1) from the partnership to file his individual tax return, he qualifies as an “affected
taxpayer” for purposes of receiving filing and payment relief. Declan’s filing and payment deadlines
are suspended until the end of the postponement period, ust like the affected partnership.

June 15 Deadlines (Automatic Two-Month Extension)

Three groups of taxpayers are granted an automatic two-month extension to file:

+ Nonresident aliens who do not have wage income subject to U.S. withholding,

«US. citizens or legal US. residents who are living outside the United States or Puerto Rico, and
their main place of business is outside the U.S. or Puerto Rico,

Taxpayers on active military service duty outside the US.

izen or resident alien living abroad must attach a statement to their tax return, explaining
which situation qualifies for this special two-month extension. Even if allowed an extension, the
taxpayer will have to pay interest on any tax not paid by the regular tax deadline of April 15.

December 15 filing extension: For most Americans and U.S. residents living abroad, the six-
‘month extension to October 15 is sufficient. However, a taxpayer who resides outside the United States
can request an additional “discretionary” two-month extension of time to file their tax return beyond
the regular six-month extension of October 15.

For calendar-year taxpayers, the “additional” extension date would be December 15.1° Unless the
extension request is denied, the taxpayer will not receive a response from the IRS.

Example: Isabella is a US. citizen residing and working in Portugal. She has already requested a 6-
‘month extension for filing her tax return using Form 4868. However, she realizes that she may require
more time to ensure the accuracy and completeness of her return, as she is still waiting on essential
financial documents from a Portuguese bank that has paid her interest during the year. Without these
documents, Isabella fears that her income tax return will not be accurate. Luckily, as an expatriate
living abroad, she has the option to obtain an additional 2-month extension, giving her until December
15th to file her US. tax return.

Special Exception for Combat Zones: The deadline for filing a tax return, claim for a refund, and
the deadline for payment of tax owed, is automatically extended for any service member, Red Cross
personnel, accredited correspondent, or contracted civilian serving in a combat zone.

These taxpayers have their tax deadlines suspended from the day they started serving in the
combat zone until 180 days after they leave the combat zone. The deadline postponement provision
also applies to estate, gift, employment, and excise tax returns. These deadline extensions also apply
to the spouses of armed service members serving in combat zones. The extension applies to both
spouses whether joint or separate returns are fled.

19 In addition to the normal 6-manth extension, taxpayers who are out of the country can request a discretionary 2-month
additional extension of time to ile thei returns (to December 15). See Publication 54 for complete instructions on how to request
this extension.

31

