Example: Umberto is an Italian On January 20,2023, he inherited a rental property from his deceased aunt, Giuseppina, a green-card holder who was living in the U.S. On his accountant’s advice, Umberto decides to keep the rental property as a passive income
source. He hires a management company to receive the rents and manage the property in his absence. Umberto requests an ITIN for tax reporting purposes. He will report his U.S. rental income on Form 1040-NR. He will not be taxed on his worldwide income, only his income from U.S. sources.

Example: Kristal is a US. citizen living in Norway. In 2023, she met and married Trond, The couple plans to live in Norway. Trond does not plan to apply for US residency Kristal and Trond file jointly and treat Trond as a US. resident alien by attaching a
statement to their joint return. To make this election, Trond must request an ITIN.

ITIN Application Process

Taxpayers who need a taxpayer identification number (ITIN) must fill out Form W-7, Application for IRS Individual Taxpayer Identification Number. Along with this form, taxpayers must provide documentation that proves their foreign status and verifies their identity.” There are three ways to apply for an ITIN, Using Form W-7, Using an IRS-authorized CRAs ASCRRAG ASULLCAALRT
«in-person ata designated IRS Taxpayer Assistance Center

A taxpayer can also engage the services of a CAA, or Certified Acceptance Agent,'® to request an ITIN. CAs can authenticate a passport and/or birth certificate for taxpayers who want to request an ITIN, but do not wish to mail their original documents to the IRS. All ITINs expire unless they are renewed

Example: Adriana, a U.S. citizen with a Social Security number, currently resides in Mexico and is employed by an international manufacturing firm. She recently married Santino, a Mexican citizen, who has a daughter named Lucia from a previous marriage (both Santino and Lucia are Mexican citizens). Adriana and Santino decide to file their taxes jointly as a married couple and claim Lucia as a dependent. they need to apply for Individual Taxpayer Identification Numbers (TIN) for Santino and Lucia. Adriana may enlist the help ofa Certified Acceptance Agent (CAA) in obtaining these ITINs for her husband and stepdaughter.

Note: Typically, the process for obtaining an ITIN involves submitting an application (Form W-7) by mail along with a taxpayer's initial tax return. This must be done on paper. The Form W-7 cannot be filed electronically. There are limited situations where a foreign person may apply for an ITIN without filing a tax return, such as when claiming tax treaty benefits or providing an ITIN for reporting purposes to a third party, such as a bank or financial institution. A full list of exceptions can be found in the Form W-7 instructions.

1 When a taxpayer applies for an TIN, the Form W-7 must include original documentation such as: an original passport, birth certificate, or cortified copies of these documents from the suing agency. Notarized copies are no longer accepted. 18 4 Certified Acceptance Agent (CA) is an individual or organization that is authorized by the Internal Revenue Service to assist alien individuals and with obtaining ITINs. The IRS maintains a ist of CAs on its website

oR

