Example: Ramon is a U.S. Marine who has served in a combat zone since March 1, so he is entitled to
extra time to file and pay his taxes. The 46 days between the date he entered the combat zone and the
normal April 15 fling deadline are added to the normal extension period of 180 days, so he has a 226-
day extension period after he leaves the combat zone. IRS deadlines for assessment and collection are:
also suspended during any period that a US. service member is in a combat zone.

Penalties and Interest

“The IRS can assess a penalty on taxpayers who fail to ile fail to pay, or both. The falure-
toile penalty is greater than the failure-to-pay penalty. f someone is unable to pay all the taxes they
owe, they are better off fling on time and paying as much as they can. The IRS will consider payment
options for taxpayers. These penalties can be abated if the taxpayer qualifies for an administrative
walver, or can establish that there was a reasonable cause for not paying or ili on time, Common
penalties include:
«+ Fallure-to-fle; When a taxpayer does not file their tax return by the return due date for
extended due date, if an extension to fle is requested and approved).
« Failure-to-pay: When a taxpayer does not pay the taxes reported on their return in full by the
due date, April 15. An extension o file does not extend the time to pa.
«Failure to pay properly estimated tax: When a taxpayer does not pay enough tases du for
the year with their quarterly estimate tax payments (or through withholding) when required.
«Interest on the amount due: In addition to filing penalties, the taxpayer wil also be charged
interest on the amount due.

Failure-to-File Penalty: The penalty for fling Form 1040 late i usually 5% of the unpaid taxes
for each month or part of a month that return is late. The penalty is based on the tax thats not paid
by the due date. This penalty will not exceed 25% of a taxpayer's unpaid taxes.

I both the falure-to-fle penalty and the falure-to-pay penalty apply in any mont, the 5% failure:
toile penalty is reduced by the failure-to-pay penalty.

= 5% of the unpaid balance per month (or part of a month) for a maximum penalty of 25% of the

unpaid tas. ifthe failure to file on time is determined to be fraudulent, the penalty is
15% of the unpaid balance per month (or part of a month) for a maximum penalty of 75% of
the unpaid tax.

+ For returns filed more than 60 days lat, the penalty shall not be less than the lesser of (1) $485
or (2) 100% of the tax due on the return

Example: Lonny docs not Ie hl tax return on time, or request an extension, because he believes that
he does not owe any income tax this year. When he finally gets around to filing his return, Lenny
discavers that he owed $25 in taxes. He files his return on July 30, and pays the amount due, but his
return is over 60 days ate. He later receives a bill with a late filing penalty of $25, which is 100% of
the tax that was due on his return. He will also owe a small late payment penalty of $2, as well as
interest on the amount due.
