Adoption Taxpayer Identification Number (ATIN)

TIN are designed or adopted children who are not yet lige or a Socal Security
umber. An ATIN is requested using Form W-7A, Application for Taxpayer entiation Number for Pending US Adoptions. Fr an adopted child who does not have an SSN, a taxpayer may request an ATIN 5:

‘The child is paced in the taxpayers home for egal adoption.
The adoption Is a domestic adoption, or the adoption is a foreign legal adoption and the child has a permanent resident alien card o certificate of citizenship The taxpayer cannot obtain the child's existing SSN, even though he has made a reasonable 
attempt to obtain ¢ from the birth parents, the placement agency, and other persons. 
+ The taxpayer cannot obtain an SSN for other reasons, such as th adoption not yet being final An ATIN issued for an adoptive child wil expire afte tu. ears from the date itis issued, although an extension can be requested, using 185. Eas 15100, Adoption Taxpayer Identification Number Extension Request. An ATIN cannot be used to obtain the Earned Income Tax Credit the Child Tax Credit, or the American Opportunity Tax Credit.
Special Rules for a Deceased Child 1a child is born and dies within the same tax year and is not granted an SSN, the taxpayer may still claim that child as a dependent.

Example: On October 9, 2023, Diane had a newborn son. Sadly, he faced health complications and passed away Just one week later. The child was issued both a birth certificate and a death certificate, but no Social Security number. When filing her taxes for 2023, Diane can still claim her son as a qualifying child. She will need to submit a paper return in order t do so Her son will still be considered a “qualifying child” for tax purposes, even though he only ived for a short time. The tax return must be filed on paper with a copy of the birth certificate or a hospital medical record attached. The birth certificate must show that the child was born alive; a stillborn infant does not qualify. The taxpayer should enter the word "DIED" in the space forthe dependents Social Security number on the tax return, Recordkeeping Requirements for Individuals Iti the responsibility of taxpayers, with or without the asistance of a tax preparer, to maintain copies oftheir ax returns and related records for as long as necessary or the administration of federal tax laws. Typically, it Is required that taxpayers retain coples of their tax returns and supporting documentation or at east three years from either the date they were filed or the due date, whichever
slater, 

There are no specific guidelines

These include identifying sources of income, keeping track of expenses for deductions, documenting the cost and improvements made to owned property, substantiating items reported on tax returns in case of an audit, and aiding inthe accurate preparation of future tax returns. I cases of an IRS audi, i is the responsibily of the taxpayer to provide proof and documentation for ther claimed expenses. Even if a tax professional prepares and signs a tax return, the taxpayer is the one ultimately responsible for the accuracy of his

2

