Taxpayer Biographical Information

When filing tax returns, information is required. A tax professional must collect this information: legal mame, date of birth, and marital status, Residency status and/or citizenship, Dependent information, the taxpayer's identification number (SSN, PTIN; GF NTIN)

10 order o prevent fraudulent tax lings, i is important for ax preparers to request identification from taxpayers. Photo IDs are prefered and should include the taxpayer's name and current address.

Its also crucial for ax preparers to verify social security cars, ITN letters, and other documents to ensure that the correct TINS are used for the taxpayer, thei spouse, and any dependent sted on the Additionally, taxpayers have the option o request an Identity Protection Personal Identification Number IP PIN) which must be entered ino software fo the RS accept an electronically fled ax return. This service is now avaiable to anyone, regardless of whether they have been a victim of identity theft or not The IRS require al individuals listed on a federal income ta return © have a Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN), including the taxpayer thei spouse (if married), and any dependents listed on the return. The types of TINS are:

1. Social Security number (SSN)
2. CUndividual taxpayer identification number (ITIN)
3. Adoption taxpayer identification number (ATIN)'®

Note: The personal and financial information = considered Sensitive and
confidential,

A preparer who wrongfully discloses a taxpayer's information could face civil and criminal charges.

Generally, only US. citizens and lawiully admitted noncitizens authorized to work n the United States are eligible for a Social Security number.

INGEST with a US, tax lability enerally have ITINS)

A taxpayer with an ITIN is not eligible to receive Social Security benefits or the Earned Income Tax Credit. ITINS are for federal tax reporting anly and are not intended toserve any other purpose.

Copel for + ed for ATI regests Fon WT, Application fo Tspeye Mention Number for Pending US Adoptions.

